---
title: Rocky Linux 8.4 Release Notes
---

# Rocky Linux 8.4

Nous sommes heureux d'annoncer la disponibilité générale de Rocky Linux 8.4 (Green Obsidian).

Rocky Linux est un système d'exploitation communautaire pour entreprise conçu pour être 100% bogue pour bogue compatible avec Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.4. Étant donné qu'il s'agit de la première version de Rocky Linux, les notes de version ci-dessous ne reflètent que les changements de fonctionnalités en amont des versions mineures.

## Remerciements

Toute l'équipe de Rocky Linux souhaite remercier tous les membres de la communauté qui ont soutenu le projet depuis sa création dans un commentaire sur un blog. Des commentaires et des vœux de bien-être, aux rapports de bogues, aux dons et au parrainage, notre communauté est venue à maintes reprises. The countless users who have installed and tested Rocky Linux release candidates on their hardware, making sure their software will work with Rocky are owed a debt of gratitude not only from us, but from the entire Enterprise Linux community.

Vous avez fait de Rocky Linux ce qu'il est aujourd'hui, et au fur et à mesure que nous avançons dans cette version, nous espérons que la communauté continuera de grandir et qu'elle sera en mesure de soutenir davantage de projets partageant les mêmes idées pour atteindre ses objectifs.

## Améliorations supportées

!!! avertissement La migration vers Rocky Linux 8.4 n'est pas **supportée** depuis Rocky Linux 8. RC1, Rocky Linux 8.4 RC1, ou tout autre candidat de publication.

### Outil de conversion disponible

La communauté a créé l'outil [migrate2rocky](https://github.com/rocky-linux/rocky-tools/tree/main/migrate2rocky) pour aider à la conversion vers Rocky Linux 8.4 à partir d'autres systèmes Enterprise Linux.

Cet outil a été testé et est généralement connu pour fonctionner, cependant, son utilisation est **à vos propres risques**.

Les membres de la communauté ont réussi à migrer des systèmes de test vers Rocky Linux depuis :

* Alma Linux (8.4)
* CentOS Linux (8.4)
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux (8.4)
* Oracle Linux (8.4)

While migrations may work from other point releases, only migrations from the current minor version release of Enterprise Linux are supported as candidates to upgrade from.

## Nouveaux modules

Brand new in Rocky Linux 8.4 are the following new module streams:

* Python 3.9
* SWIG 4.0
* Subversion 1.14
* Redis 6
* PostgreSQL 13
* MariaDB 10.5

## Changements majeurs

### Sécurité

* IPsec VPN provided by Libreswan now supports TCP encapsulation and security labels for IKEv2.

* The scap-security-guide packages have been rebased to version 0.1.54, and OpenSCAP has been rebased to version 1.3.4. These updates provide substantial improvements, including improved memory management,

* The `fapolicyd` framework now provides integrity checking, and the RPM plugin now registers any system update that is handled by either the YUM package manager or the RPM Package Manager.

### Réseau

* Nmstate est une API réseau pour les hôtes et entièrement supportée dans Rocky Linux 8.4. The `nmstate` packages provide a library and the `nmstatectl` command-line utility to manage host network settings in a declarative manner.

* The Multi-protocol Label Switching (MPLS) is an in-kernel data-forwarding mechanism to route traffic flow across enterprise networks. For example, you can add `tc filters` for managing packets received from specific ports or carrying specific types of traffic, in a consistent way.

* The `iproute2` utility introduces three new traffic control (tc) actions; `mac_push`, `push_eth`, and `pop_eth` to add MPLS labels, build an Ethernet header at the beginning of the packet, and drop the outer Ethernet header respectively.

### Kernel

* **Proactive compaction** regularly initiates memory compaction work **before** a request for allocation is made. Par conséquent, la latence pour des requêtes d'allocation de mémoire spécifiques est réduite.

* Une nouvelle implémentation du contrôleur de mémoire slab pour la technologie **des groupes de contrôle** est maintenant disponible dans Rocky Linux 8.4. The slab memory controller brings improvement in slab utilization and provides the functionality to shift the memory accounting from the page level to the object level. As a result, you can observe a significant drop in the total kernel memory footprint and positive effects on memory fragmentation.

* The time namespace feature is available in Rocky Linux 8.4. This feature is suited for changing the date and time inside Linux containers. The in-container clock adjustments after restoration from a checkpoint are also now possible.

* Rocky Linux 8.4 prend en charge le module noyau de détection et de correction d'erreurs (EDAC) défini dans les processeurs Intel Core de 8ème et 9ème génération.

### Haute Disponibilité et Clusters

* A persistent Pacemaker resource agent that maintains state data can detect failures asynchronously and inject a failure into Pacemaker immediately without waiting for the next monitor interval. A persistent resource agent can also speed up cluster response time for services with a high state overhead, since maintaining state data can reduce the state overhead for cluster actions such as start, stop, and monitor by not invoking the state separately for each action.

### Compilateurs et outils de développement

* Les outils suivants du compilateur ont été mis à jour :

> * GCC Toolset 10
> * LVM Toolset 11.0.0
> * Ensemble d'outils Rust 1.49.0
> * GCC Toolset 1.15

### Gestion des identités

* Rocky Linux 8.4 provides Ansible modules for automated management of role-based access control (RBAC) in Identity Management (IdM), an Ansible role for backing up and restoring IdM servers, and an Ansible module for location management.

## Known Issues

As with any release, there are sometimes bugs or issues found in the process of building that have not yet been patched or fixed upstream. We will be updating this section with new items or bugs as they are discovered.

!!! note "A Note about Secure Boot" We know many of you depend on Secure Boot. It is a non-trivial process to get Secure Boot for a new OS. This process is underway and the [shim-review](https://github.com/rhboot/shim-review) process should begin very soon. Rocky Linux version 8.4 will initially be released **without** Secure Boot support enabled by default. However, once the proper packages have been built and signed, another set of ISOs for Rocky Linux version 8.4 will be released **with** Secure Boot support available.

### Installer

#### Rsyslog manquant dans l'ISO Minimal

The Rocky Linux Minimal ISO (`Rocky-8.4-x86_64-minimal.iso`) does not contain the `rsyslog` package. As a result, a system installed with the Rocky Linux Minimal ISO will not include `rsyslog.service` or `/var/log/messages` out of the box. The `rsyslog` package can be installed immediately after reboot from the Rocky Linux AppStream repository to resolve this issue. ([RB#14](https://bugs.rockylinux.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14))

You may run the following command post-install to complete the installation of rsyslog:

```bash
dnf install @minimal-environment
```

#### OpenSCAP profiles may not install if using Minimal ISO

If you need to have OpenSCAP profiles, please use the DVD1 ISO Variant or ensure additional repositories are added to the installation environment.

#### Anaconda "Help" Button not functioning (#20)

The Help button in the Anaconda installer doesn't currently work. The Rocky Linux team has provided an [installation walk-through](../guides/installation.md) in the Rocky Linux Documentation to help resolve installation issues. ([RB#20](https://bugs.rockylinux.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20))

#### Bug Report GUI missing debranding (libreport)

The Bug Report GUI is missing some debranding which was not properly applied. This will be fixed in RL8.5 as well as in a coming update. However, because released ISOs are immutable, the issue will not be fixed in the 8.4 ISO files.
